# Launching an institutional AI Ethics Committee

Following is a proposal in response to the AIJ call for funding opportunities
for promoting AI research. We propose a workshop to discuss ethical concerns
related to AI development and how organizations can form their own committees
to help researchers review projects for potential ethical concerns and possible
unintended negative impact. A small team of researchers at PARC recently went
through the exercise of forming a committee, defining its mission, and
developing the tools to be used in the ethics review of projects. The agenda
will include the PARC AI ethics committee describing the motivations and the
process they followed to organize the PARC committee. We will include other
organizations who have recently gone through similar steps as well as invited
academics who focus on ethics and technology.

_New or recurrent?_
This proposal describes a new activity. Much of the current discussion about
ethics within the AI research community centers on developing models for agents
with moral decision making. Very little attention is paid to the impact of the
AI being developed and deployed today.

_What?_
The requested funds will be used to provide a meal and refreshments to
attendees and to pay the travel expenses of invited speakers. The workshop will
be hosted at PARC and there will be no cost to attendees.

_How Much?_
    A (high level) budget, in Euros , which:
    clearly states the amount requested; provides details
    of the use of requested funds; describes how the re-
    quested amount fits into an overall budget for the ac-
    tivity/event;  and  clearly  states  what  will  happen  to
    funds in the event of a surplus.

_Why?_
The main concern addressed by the workshop is not about the economic impact of
automation or some possible future risk but rather the ways that AI technology
is already causing harm to specific individuals and groups of people affected
by AI predictions, decision making tools and intelligent autonomous equipment
(automobiles, for example). Institutional Review Boards were mandated for
government funded projects involving human subjects studies because of past
instances of harm that resulted from such studies. We are beginning to see
similar harms resulting from deployed AI tools, and we believe institutional
ethics review committees using a similar model can help to mitigate the
negative effects.

The workshop is designed to help organizations deal with these immediate issues
and presents material and an opportunity for discussion that we don't believe
is happening in any other venues.

_Who?_
Members and employees of organizations that want to adopt a responsible and
clearly defined position with regard to the societal impact of their work.
Organizations who have already taken steps to mitigate concerns can also
benefit and can contribute to the discussion and sharing of information.

_When?_
    Dates  of  the  proposed  activity,  and  date  by
    which funding would be needed.  Applicants should
    apply at least 3 months before the event's dates.

_Where?_
Palo Alto Research Center (PARC)
*contact details for the  responsible  party*
3333 Coyote Hill Road
Palo Alto, CA 94304

XXXX@parc.com
(650) 812-XXXX

